Internet Of Things

The "Internet of things" (IoT) is becoming an increasingly growing
topic of conversation both in the workplace and outside of it. It's a
concept that not only has the potential to impact how we live but
also how we work. But what exactly is the "Internet of things" and
what impact is it going to have on you, if any? There are a lot of
complexities around the "Internet of things" but I want to stick to
the basics. Lots of technical and policy-related conversations are
being had but many people are still just trying to grasp the
foundation of what the heck these conversations are about.

Let's start with understanding a few things.

Broadband Internet is becoming more widely available, the cost of
connecting is decreasing, more devices are being created with Wi-Fi
capabilities and sensors built into them, technology costs are going
down, and smartphone penetration is sky-rocketing. All of these
things are creating a "perfect storm" for the IoT.

Simply put, this is the concept of basically connecting any device
with an on and off switch to the Internet . This includes everything
from cell phones, coffee makers, washing machines, headphones,
lamps, wearable devices and almost anything else you can think of.
This also applies to components of machines, for example a jet
engine of an airplane or the drill of an oil rig. As I mentioned, if it
has an on and off switch then chances are it can be a part of the IoT.
The analyst firm Gartner says that by 2020 there will be over 26
billion connected devices... That's a lot of connections some even
estimate this number to be much higher, over 100 billion. The IoT
is a giant network of connected things which also includes people.
The relationship will be between people-people, people-things, and
things-things.

 The new rule for the future is going to be, "Anything that can be
connected, will be connected." But why on earth would you want so
many connected devices talking to each other? There are many
examples for what this might look like or what the potential value
might be. Say for example you are on your way to a meeting; your
car could have access to your calendar and already know the best
route to take. If the traffic is heavy your car might send a text to the
other party notifying them that you will be late. What if your alarm
clock wakes you at 6 a.m. and then notifies your coffee maker to
start brewing coffee for you? What if your office equipment knew
when it was running low on supplies and automatically re-ordered
more?  What if the wearable device you used in the workplace could
tell you when and where you were most active and productive and
shared that information with other devices that you used while
working?

On a broader scale, the IoT can be applied to things like
transportation networks: "smart cities" which can help us reduce
waste and improve efficiency for things such as energy use; this
helps us understand and improve how we work and live. Take a look
at the visual below to see what something like that can look like.

The reality is that the IoT allows for virtually endless opportunities
and connections to take place, many of which we can't even think of
or fully understand the impact of today. It's not hard to see how and
why the IoT is such a hot topic today; it certainly opens the door to a
lot of opportunities but also to many challenges. Security is a big
issue that is oftentimes brought up. The IoT also opens up
companies all over the world to more security threats. Then we have
the issue of privacy and data sharing. This is a hot-button topic even
today, so one can only imagine how the conversation and concerns
will escalate when we are talking about many billions of devices

 being connected. Another issue that many companies specifically
are going to be faced with is around the massive amounts of data
that all of these devices are going to produce. Companies need to
figure out a way to store, track, analyze and make sense of the vast
amounts of data that will be generated.

Conversations about the IoT are and have been for several years
taking place all over the world as we seek to understand how this
will impact our lives. We are also trying to understand what the
many opportunities and challenges are going to be as more and
more devices start to join the IoT. For now the best thing that we
can do is educate ourselves about what the IoT is and the potential
impacts that can be seen on how we work and live.

The applications of IoT technologies are multiple, because it is
adjustable to almost any technology that is capable of providing
relevant information about its own operation, about the
performance of an activity and even about the environmental
conditions that we need to monitor and control at a distance.

Nowadays, many companies from different sectors or sectors are
adopting this technology to simplify, improve, automate and control
different processes. Next, we show some of the surprising practical
applications of the IoT.

1)Wearables-Virtual glasses, fitness bands to monitor for example
calorie expenditure and heart beats, or GPS tracking belts, are just
some examples of wearable devices that we have been using for
some time now. Companies such as Google, Apple, Samsung and
others have developed and introduced the Internet of Things and

 the application thereof into our daily lives.These are small and
energy efficient devices, which are equipped with sensors, with the
necessary hardware for measurements and readings, and with
software to collect and organize data and information about users.

2)Health-The use of wearables or sensors connected to patients,
allows doctors to monitor a patient's condition outside the hospital
and in real-time. Through continuously monitoring certain metrics
and automatic alerts on their vital signs, the Internet of Things
helps to improve the care for patients and the prevention of lethal
events in high-risk patients.Another use is the integration of IoT
technology into hospital beds, giving way to smart beds, equipped
with special sensors to observe vital signs, blood pressure, oximeter
and body temperature, among others.

3)Traffic Monitoring-The Internet of things can be very useful in the
management of vehicular traffic in large cities, contributing to the
concept of smart cities.When we use our mobile phones as sensors,
which collect and share data from our vehicles through applications
such as Waze or Google Maps, we are using the Internet of Things to
inform us and at the same time contribute to traffic monitoring,
showing the conditions of the different routes, and feeding and
improving the information on the different routes to the same
destination, distance, estimated time of arrival.

4)Fleet Management-The installation of sensors in fleet vehicles
helps to establish an effective interconnectivity between the vehicles
and their managers as well as between the vehicles and their drivers.
Both driver and manager/ owner can know all kinds of details about

 the status, operation and needs of the vehicle, just by accessing the
software in charge of collecting, processing and organizing the data.
Even, receive alarms in real time of maintenance incidents without
having been detected by the driver.The application of the Internet of
Things to fleet management assists with geolocation and with it the
monitoring of routes and identification of the most efficient routes,
performance analysis, telemetry control and fuel savings , the
reduction of polluting emissions to the environment and can even
provide valuable information to improve the driving of vehicles.

5)Agriculture-Smart farms are a fact. The quality of soil is crucial to
produce good crops, and the Internet of Things offers farmers the
possibility to access detailed knowledge and valuable information of
their soil condition.Through the implementation of IoT sensors, a
significant amount of data can be obtained on the state and stages of
the soil. Information such as soil moisture, level of acidity, the
presence of certain nutrients, temperature and many other chemical
characteristics, helps farmers control irrigation, make water use
more efficient, specify the best times to start sowing, and even
discover the presence of diseases in plants and soil.

6)Hospitality-The application of the IoT to the hotel industry brings
with it interesting improvements in the quality of the service. With
the implementation of electronic keys, which are sent directly to the
mobile devices of each guest, it is possible to automate various
interactions.Thus, the location of the guests, the sending of offers or
information on activities of interest, the realization of orders to the
room or room service , the automatic charge of accounts to the room
or the request of personal hygiene supplies, are activities that can be

 easily managed through integrated applications using the Internet
of Things technology.

With the use of electronic keys, the check-out process is automated,
disabling the operation of doors, offering information about the
rooms immediately available, and even assigning housekeeping
tasks to maintenance personnel.

7)Smart grid and energy saving-The progressive use of intelligent
energy meters, or meters equipped with sensors, and the installation
of sensors in different strategic points that go from the production
plants to the different distribution points, allows better monitoring
and control of the electrical network.By establishing a bidirectional
communication between the service provider company and the end
user, information of enormous value can be obtained for the
detection of faults, decision making and repair thereof.

It also allows offering valuable information to the end user about
their consumption patterns and about the best ways to reduce or
adjust their energy expenditure.

8)Water supply-A sensor, either incorporated or adjusted externally
to water meters, connected to the Internet and accompanied by the
necessary software , helps to collect, process and analyze data,
which allows understanding the behavior of consumers, detecting
faults in the supply service, report results and offer courses of action
to the company that provides the service.Likewise, it offers final
consumers the possibility of tracking their own consumption

 information, through a web page and in real time, even receiving
automatic alerts in case of detecting consumption out of range to
their average consumption record, which could indicate the
presence of a leak.

9)Maintenance Management-One of the areas where the application
of IoT technology is most extensive is precisely maintenance
management. Through the combination of sensors and software
specialized in maintenance management, a multifunctional tool is
obtained whose use can be applied to a multiplicity of disciplines
and practices, with the purpose of extending the useful life of
physical assets, while guaranteeing asset reliability and
availability.When the characteristics of the software in charge of
processing and arranging the data collected by the sensors are
designed to specifically address the maintenance management
needs of physical assets, their application is almost unlimited.

The real time monitoring of physical assets allows determining
when a measurement is out of range and it is necessary to perform
condition-based maintenance, or even applying Artificial
Intelligence algorithms such as Machine Learning or Deep Learning
to predict the failure before it happens.

Advantages of Internet of things

1)Easy Access-Right now, you can easily access the necessary

information in real-time, from whichever location you are at. All it

 takes is a smart device and internet connection.We use Google Maps

to see where we are, instead of asking a person in the street.Booking

is simpler than ever. Factual information is easily accessible, even

from the latest scientific research, or business analysis. It is only a

click away.

2)Speed-All this data pouring in enables us to complete numerous

tasks with envying speed. For example, IoT makes automation easy.

Smart offices automate repetitive tasks, thus allowing employees to

invest their time and effort into something more challenging.

3)Adapting to new standards-Though IoT is ever-changing, its

alterations are minimal compared to the rest of the high tech world.

Without IoT, it would be hard for us to keep track of all the latest

updates.

4)Better Time Management-Overall, the IoT is an incredible

time-saving tool. We can search for the latest news on our phones

during our daily commute, or visit a blog about our favorite pastime,

purchase an item in an online shop, you name it.

Eventually, we end up with much more time on our hands.

 However, nothing is perfect.

Disadvantages of IOT-

1)Data Breach-Having easy access to data is wonderful.

Unfortunately, our own private data is more exposed than ever too.

Statistics show some worrying figures. 12.7 million Americans were

victims of identity theft. A credit card number is the type of

information that was most compromised, followed by a debit card

number.

Data breaches are extremely stressful. Companies also fear them

and can lose the trust of their clients for good if the cyber attack

comes via their website pages.

The riskiest devices are said to be: smart toys for kids, off-brand IoT

gadgets, second-hand smart devices, and the latest, suspicious apps

about the newest unusual devices.

2)Dependence-The IoT, obviously, is dependent on the internet

connection. When there is none, it can’t be used.

 On the other hand, we have become increasingly dependent on the

IoT’s everyday usage. Not only in business, but in our private lives.

If we don’t download the desired information quickly, we are prone

to becoming agitated and upset, even about the most trivial content.

To this end, the IoT does not always bring out the best in us and it

has contributed to the great decrease in our attention spans.

3)Complexity-Though IoT seems to be completing tasks with ease, a

lot of complex operations are behind it. Consequently, if the

software makes a wrong calculation, this will affect the rest of the

process. The above-mentioned over-reliance can be very dangerous

sometimes. At best, we won’t know how to deal with the wrong

temperature in our green home. At worst, a glitch in water dam

software could cause a disastrous flood.Therefore, oftentimes a

mistake in IoT is not always easy to fix.

Standard Devices-

The desktop, tablet, and cellphone remain integral parts of IoT as
the command center and remotes.  The desktop provides the user
with the highest level of control over the system and its settings.
The tablet provides access to the key features of the system in a way
resembling the desktop, and also acts as a remote. The cell phone

 allows some essential settings modification and also provides
remote functionality. Other key connected devices include standard
network devices like routers and switches.

Internet of Things Software-

IoT software addresses its key areas of networking and action
through platforms, embedded systems, partner systems, and
middleware. These individual and master applications are
responsible for data collection, device integration, real-time
analytics, and application and process extension within the IoT
network. They exploit integration with critical business systems
(e.g., ordering systems, robotics, scheduling, and more) in the
execution of related tasks.

Data Collection This software manages sensing, measurements,
light data filtering, light data security, and aggregation of data. It
uses certain protocols to aid sensors in connecting with real-time,
machine-to-machine networks. Then it collects data from multiple
devices and distributes it in accordance with settings. It also works
in reverse by distributing data over devices. The system eventually
transmits all collected data to a central server.

Device Integration Software supporting integration binds
(dependent relationships) all system devices to create the body of
the IoT system. It ensures the necessary cooperation and stable
networking between devices. These applications are the defining
software technology of the IoT network because without them, it is

 not an IoT system. They manage the various applications, protocols,
and limitations of each device to allow communication.

Real-Time Analytics These applications take data or input from
various devices and convert it into viable actions or clear patterns
for human analysis. They analyze information based on various
settings and designs in order to perform automation-related tasks or
provide the data required by industry.

Application and Process Extension These applications extend the
reach of existing systems and software to allow a wider, more
effective system. They integrate predefined devices for specific
purposes such as allowing certain mobile devices or engineering
instruments access. It supports improved productivity and more
accurate data collection.

Common Uses-

IoT has applications across all industries and markets. It spans user
groups from those who want to reduce energy use in their home to
large organizations who want to streamline their operations. It
proves not just useful, but nearly critical in many industries as
technology advances and we move towards the advanced
automation imagined in the distant future.

Engineering, Industry, and Infrastructure-Applications of IoT in
these areas include improving production, marketing, service

 delivery, and safety. IoT provides a strong means of monitoring
various processes; and real transparency creates greater visibility for
improvement opportunities. The deep level of control afforded by
IoT allows rapid and more action on those opportunities, which
include events like obvious customer needs, nonconforming
product, malfunctions in equipment, problems in the distribution
network, and more. Example Joan runs a manufacturing facility that
makes shields for manufacturing equipment. When regulations
change for the composition and function of the shields, the new
appropriate requirements are automatically programmed in
production robotics, and engineers are alerted about their approval
of the changes.

Government and Safety-IoT applied to government and safety
allows improved law enforcement, defense, city planning, and
economic management. The technology fills in the current gaps,
corrects many current flaws, and expands the reach of these efforts.
For example, IoT can help city planners have a clearer view of the
impact of their design, and governments have a better idea of the
local economy. Example Joan lives in a small city. She’s heard about
a recent spike in crime in her area, and worries about coming home
late at night. Local law enforcement has been alerted about the new
“hot” zone through system flags, and they’ve increases their
presence. Area monitoring devices have detected suspicious
behavior, and law enforcement has investigated these leads to
prevent crimes.

Home and Office-In our daily lives, IoT provides a personalized
experience from the home to the office to the organizations we
frequently do business with. This improves our overall satisfaction,

 enhances productivity, and improves our health and safety. For
example, IoT can help us customize our office space to optimize our
work.

Example Joan works in advertising. She enters her office, and it
recognizes her face. It adjusts the lighting and temperature to her
preference. It turns on her devices and opens applications to her last
working points. Her office door detected and recognized a colleague
visiting her office multiple times before she arrived. Joan’s system
opens this visitor’s messages automatically.

Health and Medicine-IoT pushes us towards our imagined future of
medicine which exploits a highly integrated network of
sophisticated medical devices. Today, IoT can dramatically enhance
medical research, devices, care, and emergency care. The integration
of all elements provides more accuracy, more attention to detail,
faster reactions to events, and constant improvement while reducing
the typical overhead of medical research and organizations.

Example Joan is a nurse in an emergency room. A call has come in
for a man wounded in an altercation. The system recognizes the
patient and pulls his records. On the scene, paramedic equipment
captures critical information automatically sent to the receiving
parties at the hospital. The system analyzes the new data and
current records to deliver a guiding solution. The status of the
patient is updated every second in the system during his transport.
The system prompts Joan to approve system actions for medicine
distribution and medical equipment preparation.

 Environmental Monitoring-

The applications of IoT in environmental monitoring are broad:
environmental protection, extreme weather monitoring, water
safety, endangered species protection, commercial farming, and
more. In these applications, sensors detect and measure every type
of environmental change.

Air and Water Pollution-Current monitoring technology for air and
water safety primarily uses manual labor along with advanced
instruments, and lab processing. IoT improves on this technology by
reducing the need for human labor, allowing frequent sampling,
increasing the range of sampling and monitoring, allowing
sophisticated testing on-site, and binding response efforts to
detection systems. This allows us to prevent substantial
contamination and related disasters.

Extreme Weather-Though powerful, advanced systems currently in
use allow deep monitoring, they suffer from using broad
instruments, such as radar and satellites, rather than more granular
solutions. Their instruments for smaller details lack the same
accurate targeting of stronger technology. New IoT advances
promise more fine-grained data, better accuracy, and flexibility.
Effective forecasting requires high detail and flexibility in range,
instrument type, and deployment. This allows early detection and
early responses to prevent loss of life and property.

 Commercial Farming -Today's sophisticated commercial farms have
exploited advanced technology and biotechnology for quite some
time, however, IoT introduces more access to deeper automation
and analysis.Much of commercial farming, like weather monitoring,
suffers from a lack of precision and requires human labor in the area
of monitoring. Its automation also remains limited. IoT allows
operations to remove much of the human intervention in system
function, farming analysis, and monitoring. Systems detect changes
to crops, soil, environment, and more. They optimize standard
processes through analysis of large, rich data collections. They also
prevent health hazards from happening and allow better control.

Manufacturing Applications

Manufacturing technology currently in use exploits standard
technology along with modern distribution and analytics. IoT
introduces deeper integration and more powerful analytics. This
opens the world of manufacturing in a way never seen before, as
organizations become fully developed for product delivery rather
than a global network of suppliers, makers, and distributors loosely
tied together.

Intelligent Product Enhancements

Much like IoT in content delivery, IoT in manufacturing allows
richer insight in real-time. This dramatically reduces the time and
resources devoted to this one area, which traditionally requires
heavy market research before, during, and well after the products

 hit the market.IoT also reduces the risks associated with launching
new or modified products because it provides more reliable and
detailed information. The information comes directly from market
use and buyers rather than assorted sources of varied credibility.

Dynamic Response to Market Demands-Supplying the market
requires maintaining a certain balance impacted by a number of
factors such as economy state, sales performance, season, supplier
status, manufacturing facility status, distribution status, and more.
The expenses associated with supply present unique challenges
given today's global partners. The associated potential or real losses
can dramatically impact business and future decisions.

IoT manages these areas through ensuring fine details are managed
more at the system level rather than through human evaluations
and decisions. An IoT system can better assess and control the
supply chain with most products, whether demands are high or low.

Lower Costs, Optimized Resource Use, and Waste Reduction

IoT offers a replacement for traditional labor and tools in a
production facility and in the overall chain which cuts many
previously unavoidable costs; for example, maintenance checks or
tests traditionally requiring human labor can be performed remotely
with instruments and sensors of an IoT system.IoT also enhances
operation analytics to optimize resource use and labor, and
eliminate various types of waste, e.g., energy and materials. It
analyzes the entire process from the source point to its end, not just

 the process at one point in a particular facility, which allows
improvement to have a more substantial impact. It essentially
reduces waste throughout the network, and returns those savings
throughout.

Improved Facility Safety-A typical facility suffers from a number of
health and safety hazards due to risks posed by processes,
equipment, and product handling. IoT aids in better control and
visibility. Its monitoring extends throughout the network of devices
for not only performance, but for dangerous malfunctions and
usage. It aids (or performs) analysis and repair, or correction, of
critical flaws.

Product Safety-Even the most sophisticated system cannot avoid
malfunctions, nonconforming product, and other hazards finding
their way to market. Sometimes these incidents have nothing to do
with the manufacturing process, and result from unknown conflicts.
In manufacturing, IoT helps in avoiding recalls and controlling
nonconforming or dangerous product distribution. Its high level of
visibility, control, and integration can better contain any issues that
appear.

Energy Applications-

The optimization qualities of IoT in manufacturing also apply to
energy consumption. IoT allows a wide variety of energy control and
monitoring functions, with applications in devices, commercial and
residential energy use, and the energy source. Optimization results

 from the detailed analysis previously unavailable to most
organizations and individuals.

Residential Energy-The rise of technology has driven energy costs
up. Consumers search for ways to reduce or control consumption.
IoT offers a sophisticated way to analyze and optimize use not only
at device level, but throughout the entire system of the home. This
can mean simple switching off or dimming of lights, or changing
device settings and modifying multiple home settings to optimize
energy use. IoT can also discover problematic consumption from
issues like older appliances, damaged appliances, or faulty system
components. Traditionally, finding such problems required the use
of often multiple professionals.

Commercial Energy-Energy waste can easily and quietly impact
business in a major way, given the tremendous energy needs of even
small organizations. Smaller organizations wrestle with balancing
costs of business while delivering a product with typically smaller
margins, and working with limited funding and technology. Larger
organizations must monitor a massive, complex ecosystem of energy
use that offers few simple, effective solutions for energy use
management.IoT simplifies the process of energy monitoring and
management while maintaining a low cost and high level of
precision. It addresses all points of an organization's consumption
across devices. Its depth of analysis and control provides
organizations with a strong means of managing their consumption
for cost shaving and output optimization. IoT systems discover
energy issues in the same way as functional issues in a complex
business network, and provide solutions.

 Reliability-The analytics and action delivered by IoT also help to
ensure system reliability. Beyond consumption, IoT prevents system
overloads or throttling. It also detects threats to system
performance and stability, which protects against losses such as
downtime, damaged equipment, and injuries.

Building housing Applications

IoT applied to buildings and various structures allows us to
automate routine residential and commercial tasks and needs in a
way that dramatically improves living and working environments.
This, as seen with manufacturing and energy applications, reduces
costs, enhances safety, improves individual productivity, and
enhances quality of life.

Environment and Conditioning-One of the greatest challenges in the
engineering of buildings remains management of environment and
conditions due to many factors at work. These factors include
building materials, climate, building use, and more. Managing
energy costs receives the most attention, but conditioning also
impacts the durability and state of the structure. IoT aids in
improving structure design and managing existing structures
through more accurate and complete data on buildings. It provides
important engineering information such as how well a material
performs as insulation in a particular design and environment.

Health and Safety-Buildings, even when constructed with care, can
suffer from certain health and safety issues. These issues include

 poor performing materials, flaws that leave the building vulnerable
to extreme weather, poor foundations, and more.

To sum up-

The IoT has brought us many amazing things and it continues to
surprise us in lots of sectors: business, healthcare, and our private
lives. As for the downsides, now that you are more aware of them,
try to keep those under control. Protect your data and be aware of
how automation and easy access can affect you or your business.

  