Simply put, cloud computing is the delivery of computing
services—including servers, storage, databases, networking, software,
analytics, and intelligence—over the Internet (“the cloud”) to offer faster
innovation, flexible resources, and economies of scale. Reliability
Cloud computing makes data backup, disaster recovery and business
continuity easier and less expensive because data can be mirrored at
multiple redundant sites on the cloud provider’s network. Most cloud computing services are provided self service and on demand,
so even vast amounts of computing resources can be provisioned in
minutes, typically with just a few mouse clicks, giving businesses a lot of
flexibility and taking the pressure off capacity planning. Cloud computing eliminates the capital expense of buying hardware and
software and setting up and running on site datacenters—the racks of
servers, the round the clock electricity for power and cooling, the IT experts
for managing the infrastructure. By allowing data and applications to move between private and public
clouds, a hybrid cloud gives your business greater flexibility, more
deployment options and helps optimise your existing infrastructure, security
and compliance. You typically pay
only for cloud services you use, helping lower your operating costs, run
your infrastructure more efficiently and scale as your business needs
change. There are three different ways to deploy cloud services: on a public cloud,
private cloud or hybrid cloud. The biggest cloud computing services run on a worldwide network of
secure datacenters, which are regularly upgraded to the latest generation
of fast and efficient computing hardware. In cloud speak, that means delivering the right amount of IT
resources—for example, more or less computing power, storage,
bandwidth—right when it is needed and from the right geographic location. With a public cloud, all hardware,
software and other supporting infrastructure is owned and managed by the
cloud provider. 

 Hybrid cloud
Hybrid clouds combine public and private clouds, bound together by
technology that allows data and applications to be shared between them. First, you need to determine the type of cloud deployment or cloud
computing architecture that your cloud services will be implemented on.